well we begin with breaking news from
Gaza City where Israel has killed at
least 77 Palestinians and injured
hundreds more more than 30,000 people
have now been killed since Israel
launched its war on Gaza in October
Thursday's attack is being described as
a massacre of civilians by Israeli
troops hundreds of starving Palestinians
had gathered to collect food Aid when
they were attacked by Israeli snipers
and shelled by Israeli tanks a paramedic
in Gaza City has described what
situation was like as he rushed the
injured to the Kamal adwan
hospital when we received an emergency
called that elifa hospital is no longer
able to cope with the massive number of
victims we rushed with the only three
ambulance Vehicles we have running as we
are out of fuel we found dozens of dead
bodies lying on the way the three
ambulance Vehicles were not enough to
carry the dead and the injured we
decided to start with the injured first
for more than 4 hours now we have been
transporting victims to hospitals more
than 200 injured were taken to two
hospitals not only by ambulance but also
by Donkey carts and private cars we
later returned to recover the dead
bodies as of now there are 30 dead
bodies that have been recovered this is
genocide against our people those were
innocent civilians waiting for days for
the trucks carrying relief Aid it is a
war
crime well let's bring in Al jaaz senior
political analyst Maran Bashar to unpack
some of this for us further Maran we've
literally just heard from from villum
there with the latest Israeli statement
they're saying that people were were
killed in a crush in in a stampede they
were looting the aid delivery obviously
we've heard from doctors who've been
treating the injured they're saying
these are gunshot wounds these are
wounds from from shelling what do you
make of the two
narratives um it's uh predictable right
I mean it's more of the same lies that
we've heard before throughout the
years um every time Israel commits a a
massacre or a war crime there's always
some lie that comes behind or after
unfortunately a lot of this thing is
happening in uh in plain sight and
sooner or later we're seeing evidence
we're seeing footage and and so on so
forth and things are getting
investigated and so on so forth what is
really striking is a number of things
and that's why it's hard to believe
anything the Israel is saying because of
what you you just said earlier and I
think we need to stop and think about
that
30,000 30,000 yeah in less than 5 months
mostly women and
children and the idea of
shelling starving
people killing them twice I mean what's
the point of shelling people who are
dying by
starvation M what is the point there's
been speculation that that something
like the attack that we've seen could be
used as as some kind of a negotiating
tactic especially as talks are
continuing what do you make of that you
know I the more I think about it
throughout the day and I look at these
images a number of interpretation a
number of explanations are possible one
is that this is more of the same I mean
why today well why yesterday why the day
before and why the bombings of hospitals
the killing of children the bombing of
residential buildings the ethnic
cleansing and so on so forth and why
well it's because of all of these there
is a pattern here right and it's very
important because if there's no pattern
then you can talk about Randomness you
can talk about exception but when
there's a pattern over 5 months of war
crimes of targeting civilians right of
making justifications that are no longer
sellable
because when Hamas Fighters or those who
are killed among Hamas Fighters become
the collateral
damage when the absolute majority of
those who were killed are civilians
mostly women and children you know that
there's a pattern here that's why we
speak of genocide that's why we speak of
war crimes that's why we speak of
Slaughter of civilians and I think in a
sense here you can say that this is a
pattern now does this have something to
do with the deadline Monday the 4th of
March where there's a potential deal
over a temporary ceasefire there could
be I think this government in Israel
does not want any form of a
ceasefire does is not really interested
in freeing the captives in return for
whatever the cost is freeing prisoners
stopping the war even for a while right
I think in that sense if they are forced
to accept the deal they will probably
break it within weeks but in the
meanwhile they will stauter and Destroy
as much as possible the other
explanation is if the deal is not set in
stone yet and there's wrangling about it
I I think they are more than interested
to torpedo it either by driving the
Palestinians and Hamas to the brink or
by creating so much Havoc right that
it's going to be
uncontrollable you talk about driving
the Palestinians to the brink I I'm
wondering when you say well driving
Hamas to the brink there are fata and
Hamas Representatives right now meeting
in in Moscow and there's been plenty of
talk about how a more unified
Palestinian front would would help the
the negotiations
bring make a ceasefire potentially more
likely do you think something like this
what we've seen today in Gaza City that
it it has the potential to bring the
different Palestinian factions closer
together well thank you for that because
that gets me to the third possible
interpretation of why Israel carries
that Slaughter of the Palestinians one
can Define it as an act of State Terror
why an act of State Terror because
Israel is basically using Force against
the civilian population of Gaza and the
West Bank in order to
extract concessions from Hamas and fat
from those who are still in control or
somehow in control in Gaza and those who
are in control in the West Bank the
more killing and the more Force they are
using they are trying to basically
blackmail Hamas of fat into making
concessions on the number of days of uh
of the pause or a number of prisoners
released and so on so forth right and
that kind of state Terror against the
people in Gaza in order to extract
concessions from the leaders it's not
working or it has not worked yet so we
don't know if it's going to work this
time because truly the Palestinians in
Gaza are getting fed up and think a lot
of them all of them just want some kind
of respite in the days in the days in
the days ahead and that's why most all
people are waiting for some kind of a
break during Ramadan right yeah well
stay with me on because as we've been
discussing the death toll among
Palestinians from Israel's war on the
Gaza Strip has now crossed 30,000
according to gaza's health ministry
that's 1.3% of the population now let's
take a look at how this percentage
potentially Compares with other
countries now if a war was launched
against Israel on that same scale and
for the same duration 1.3% of its
population killed that's more than
120,000 Israelis the same percentage in
Ukraine that would be nearly half a
million dead in the United States that
would translate to nearly 4 and a half
million Americans in China that's more
than 18 and a half million who'd be
killed Maran you spoke about people
wanting respite obviously as we've been
saying Ramadan is just around the corner
a hugely sensitive time not only across
the Gaza stripit but across the region
too right now we're watching babies
starve to death in hospitals as these
talks of a potential ceasefire continue
and the International Community presses
for a ceasefire but but not much seems
to happen what now you know when we
start talking about famine in
2024 uh us backed Israeli imposed famine
I I cast my eyes back trying to remember
if the United States was ever involved
in forced famine I mean Biden President
Biden needs to be thinking about that
what did does it mean for that country
that you know have these self-fulfilled
or self pretensions about morality and
and uh and values and so on so forth to
be
backing famine in a place like Gaza and
an open air prison in a basically a
concentration camp famine which reminds
us of the second world war in a
concentration camp what does it mean
right so in a sense you could say that
what uh the Israelis are doing today in
Gaza cutting Aid and creating that kind
of famine basically starvation as a
weapon of War may you know one has to be
somehow you know feels their own
Humanity we need to feel our humanity
and think that the chancellor of Germany
the prime minister of Britain and the
president of the United States have some
humanity and decency in them to look at
the situation in Gaza unraveling in
plain sight on their TV screens and see
what is their policies are leading to in
Palestine and I think you would think
that out of all the misery and the
slaughter and the suffering and the
death and the destruction that maybe
this will start moving people about now
it's not apparently moving money in the
Middle East yeah unfortunately right we
still hear from Arab leaders how they
have really everything possible to get
food into Gaza yeah everything possible
to get food into Gaza let's all
remember that there is a un Security
Council resolution that mandated enter
of humanitarian assist to Gaza and there
is an Arab League and Islamic conference
resolution towards that end and we've
been hearing that anger and frustration
on on the streets of Gaza directed at
Arab states to Maan Bashar thank you for
joining me again here um on this
Bulletin